README.md, before:

# deep cross modal hashing (torchcmh)
[Chinese readme](./README_zh.md)

torchcmh is a library built on PyTorch for deep learning cross modal hashing.\
Including: 
- data visualization
- baseline methods
- multiple data reading API
- loss function API
- config call
----
### Dataset

There are four datasets(Mirflickr25k, Nus Wide, MS coco, IAPR TC-12) sort out by myself,
if you want use these datasets, please download mat file and image file by readme file in dataset package.\
Please read "[readme](./torchcmh/dataset/README.md)" in dataset package

----
### Model
You can crate model or use existing model. 
We support some pre-train models, you can check out the [README.md](./torchcmh/models/README.md) file in details.

---
### Dependencies 
you need to install these package to run
- visdom 0.1.8+
- pytorch 1.0.0+
- tqdm 4.0+
----
### Logs and checkpoints

All method training will create a log and checkpoint to store the model. \
you can find log in ./logs/\{method_name\}/\{dataset_name\}/date.txt \
you can find checkpoints in ./checkpoints/\{method_name\}/\{dataset_name\}/\{bit\}-\{model_name\}.pth

----
### How to using
- create a configuration file as ./script/default_config.yml
```yaml
training:
  # the name of python file in training
  method: SCAHN
  # the data set name, you can choose mirflickr25k, nus wide, ms coco, iapr tc-12
  dataName: Mirflickr25K
  batchSize: 64
  # the bit of hash codes
  bit: 64
  # if true, the program will be run on gpu. Of course, you need install 'cuda' and 'cudnn' better.
  cuda: True
  # the device id you want to use, if you want to multi gpu, you can use [id1, id2]
  device: 0
datasetPath:
  Mirflickr25k:
    # the path you download the image of data set. Attention: image files, not mat file.
    img_dir: \dataset\mirflickr25k\mirflickr

```
- run ./script/main.py and input configuration file path.
```python
from torchcmh.run import run
if __name__ == '__main__':
    run(config_path='default_config.yml')
```
- data visualization
Before you start trainer, please use command as follows to open visdom server.
```shell script
python -m visdom.server
```
Then you can see the charts in browser in special port.

----
### How to create your method
- create new method file in folder ./torchcmh/training/
- inherit implement TrainBase
- change config.yml file and run.

#### some function in TrainBase
- loss variable \
In your method, some variables you need to store and check, such as loss and acc. 
You can use var in TrainBase "loss_store" to store:
```pythn
self.loss_store = ["log loss", 'quantization loss', 'balance loss', 'loss']
```
"loss_store" is a list, push the name and update value by "loss_store\[name\].update()":
```python
value = 1000    # the value to update 
n = 10          # the number of instance for current value
self.loss_store['log loss'].update(value, n)
```
For print and visualization the loss, you can use:
```python
epoch = 1       # current epoch
self.print_loss(epoch)  # print loss
self.plot_loss("img loss")  # visualization img loss is the name of chart
```
clean "loss_store"
```python
self.reset_loss()   # reset loss_store
```
- parameters
In your method, all parameters can be stored as follows:
```python
self.parameters = {'gamma': 1, 'eta': 1}    # {name: value}
```
when method training, log will record the parameters and learning rate.
- valid
```python
for epoch in range(self.max_epoch):
    # training codes
    self.valid(epoch)
```
----
### LICENSE
this repository keep MIT license.

Commit message:

[new feature] visdom_open.py

README.md, after:

# deep cross modal hashing (torchcmh)
[Chinese readme](./README_zh.md)

torchcmh is a library built on PyTorch for deep learning cross modal hashing.\
Including: 
- data visualization
- baseline methods
- multiple data reading API
- loss function API
- config call
----
### Dataset

There are four datasets(Mirflickr25k, Nus Wide, MS coco, IAPR TC-12) sort out by myself,
if you want use these datasets, please download mat file and image file by readme file in dataset package.\
Please read "[readme](./torchcmh/dataset/README.md)" in dataset package

----
### Model
You can crate model or use existing model. 
We support some pre-train models, you can check out the [README.md](./torchcmh/models/README.md) file in details.

---
### Dependencies 
you need to install these package to run
- visdom 0.1.8+
- pytorch 1.0.0+
- tqdm 4.0+
----
### Logs and checkpoints

All method training will create a log and checkpoint to store the model. \
you can find log in ./logs/\{method_name\}/\{dataset_name\}/date.txt \
you can find checkpoints in ./checkpoints/\{method_name\}/\{dataset_name\}/\{bit\}-\{model_name\}.pth

----
### How to using
- create a configuration file as ./script/default_config.yml
```yaml
training:
  # the name of python file in training
  method: SCAHN
  # the data set name, you can choose mirflickr25k, nus wide, ms coco, iapr tc-12
  dataName: Mirflickr25K
  batchSize: 64
  # the bit of hash codes
  bit: 64
  # if true, the program will be run on gpu. Of course, you need install 'cuda' and 'cudnn' better.
  cuda: True
  # the device id you want to use, if you want to multi gpu, you can use [id1, id2]
  device: 0
datasetPath:
  Mirflickr25k:
    # the path you download the image of data set. Attention: image files, not mat file.
    img_dir: \dataset\mirflickr25k\mirflickr

```
- run ./script/main.py and input configuration file path.
```python
from torchcmh.run import run
if __name__ == '__main__':
    run(config_path='default_config.yml')
```
- data visualization
Before you start trainer, please use command as follows to open visdom server.
```shell script
python -m visdom.server
```
Or you can run script/visdom_open.py
```shell
python script/visdom_open.py
```
Then you can see the charts in browser in special port.

----
### How to create your method
- create new method file in folder ./torchcmh/training/
- inherit implement TrainBase
- change config.yml file and run.

#### A easy way to create your method
run script create_algorithm.py as following:
```shell
python create_algorithm.py ${method_name}
```
You can assign the method name by command or in create_algorithm.py

After running create_algorithm.py, you should get a new python file with your method name in "torchcmh/training/".
And you should also get a directory with your method name in "torchcmh/models".

Finish your algorithm and run it.

#### some function in TrainBase
- loss variable \
In your method, some variables you need to store and check, such as loss and acc. 
You can use var in TrainBase "loss_store" to store:
```pythn
self.loss_store = ["log loss", 'quantization loss', 'balance loss', 'loss']
```
"loss_store" is a list, push the name and update value by "loss_store\[name\].update()":
```python
value = 1000    # the value to update 
n = 10          # the number of instance for current value
self.loss_store['log loss'].update(value, n)
```
For print and visualization the loss, you can use:
```python
epoch = 1       # current epoch
self.print_loss(epoch)  # print loss
self.plot_loss("img loss")  # visualization img loss is the name of chart
```
clean "loss_store"
```python
self.reset_loss()   # reset loss_store
```
- parameters
In your method, all parameters can be stored as follows:
```python
self.parameters = {'gamma': 1, 'eta': 1}    # {name: value}
```
when method training, log will record the parameters and learning rate.
- valid
```python
for epoch in range(self.max_epoch):
    # training codes
    self.valid(epoch)
```
----
### LICENSE
this repository keep MIT license.
